Configuration Documentation [13180] (#76)
eProsima/DDS-Router: docs/rst/user_manual/configuration.rst

.. include:: ../exports/alias.include

.. _user_manual_configuration:

########################
DDS Router Configuration
########################

> A |ddsrouter| execution is configured by a *.yaml* single configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A |ddsrouter| is configured by a *.yaml* configuration file.
```

> This *.yaml* file contains all the information regarding the |ddsrouter| configuration, as topics filtering,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This *.yaml* file contains all the information regarding the |ddsrouter| configuration, such as topics filtering
```

> and :term:`Participant` configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and :term:`Participants <Participant>` configurations.
```

Author: :+1:

Topic Filtering
===============

.. note::

>     The |ddsrouter| discovery module is a work in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The |ddsrouter| topic discovery module is a work in progress.
```

    Thus, the functionality regarding Topic filtering is still in its early stages.

> The |ddsrouter| requires a list of :term:`Topics<Topic>` that will be the ones that will be relay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |ddsrouter| requires a list of allowed :term:`Topics<Topic>`.  The data transmitted under these topics will be the data relayed by the |ddsrouter|. 
```

Author: :+1:

> The yaml must contain a tag ``allowlist`` which element is a vector (``[]``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The YAML configuration file must contain an ``allowlist`` tag which is a vector (``[]``).
```

Author: :+1:

> This vector elements are the different Topics that will be transmitted (this requires to create the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This vector elements contains the Topics that will be forwarded (subsequently the |ddsrouter| creates a
```

Author: :+1:

:term:`Writers<DataWriter>` and :term:`Readers<DataReader>` for each topic for each Participant).
See Topic section for further information about the topic

.. todo:

    Add link to topic page when created

> In the following yaml example, the |ddsrouter| will transmit the topic ``rt/chatter`` (default ROS2 topic for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following configuration example, the |ddsrouter| will transmit the topic ``rt/chatter`` (default ROS2 topic for
```

``talker`` and ``listener``) with type name ``std_msgs::msg::dds_::String_``.

> It also will transmit the topic  ``HelloWorldTopic`` (default FastDDS topic for ``HelloWorldExample``)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also will transmit the topic ``HelloWorldTopic`` (default FastDDS topic for ``HelloWorldExample``)
```

with type name ``HelloWorld``.

.. code-block:: yaml

    allowlist:
    [
        {name: "rt/chatter", type: "std_msgs::msg::dds_::String_"},
        {name: "HelloWorldTopic", type: "HelloWorld"},
    ]

.. note::

    Tag ``allowlist`` must be at yaml base level (it must not be inside any other tag).

Participant Configuration
=========================

> At the yaml base level, along with ``allowlist`` tag, there will be the different Participants that will be created,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the yaml base level, along with ``allowlist`` tag, there will be the Participants that will be created,
```

> along with their specific configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
together with their specific configuration.
```

Each Participant is identified by a unique :term:`Participant Id` that will be the yaml *key*.
The yaml *value* for this *key* is the configuration for this specific Participant.
There could be any number of Participants, and Participant types could be repeated.

Each Participant has its specific configuration.
Please, refer to :ref:`user_manual_participant_participant_types` in order to see each of the
:term:`Participant Types<Participant Type>` requirements.

.. warning::

    Do not configure two Participants in a way that they can communicate to each other (e.g. two Simple participants
    in the same domain).
    This will lead to an infinite feedback loop for one to each other.

> In the following yaml example, the |ddsrouter| will create two Simple Participants, one for ``domain 0`` and one for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following configuration example, the |ddsrouter| will create two Simple Participants, one for ``domain 0`` and one for
```

``domain 1``.

> This is a typical use case of Domain bridge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a typical use case of DDS Domain bridge.
```

> The topics allowed in the two domains will start communicating to each other .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The topics allowed in the two domains will start communicating to each other.
```

> Be aware that the communication is not P2P, the data must reach the |ddsrouter| and this will forward the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the communication is not performed between the end-user DDS entities, i.e. the data must reach the |ddsrouter| and this will forward the data.
```

Author: :+1:

.. todo:

    Add link to Simple Participant when page created
    Add link to use case domain bridge

.. code-block:: yaml

    Participant0:       # Participant Id = Participant0
        type: local     # Participant Type = simple
        domain: 3       # DomainId = 3

    ################

    simple:             # Participant Id = simple ; Participant Type = simple
        domain: 6       # DomainId = 6

> The first Participant `Participant0` has Participant Id *Participant0* and Participant Type *simple*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first Participant `Participant0` has Participant Id *Participant0* and is configured to be of the *simple* participant type.
```

Author: :+1:

> The second Participant has Participant Id *simple*, and type is not required to be specified as it is get from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second Participant has Participant Id *simple* and configured to be of the *simple* type. That is because the type is not required to be specified as it is get from the
```

Author: :+1:

Participant Id.

.. note::

    Participant Type is not case sensitive.
    A Participant called *Simple* would be of type ``simple``.

.. note::

    The Participant Id is get as Participant Type when type is not specified.
    If type is explicitly specified, the Participant Id is not used to get the type.

Network Address
===============

Network Addresses are elements that can be configured for specific Participants.

> An Address is set by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Address is defined by:
```

> * *IP*: IP of the host (public IP in case of WAN).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *IP*: IP of the host (public IP in case of WAN communication).
```

* *Port*: Port where the Participant is listening.
* *Transport Protocol*: ``UDP`` or ``TCP``.
  If it is not set, it would be chosen by default depending on the Participant Type.
* *IP version*: ``v4`` or ``v6``.
  If it is not set, it would be chosen depending on the *IP* string format.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ip: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 11666
    transport: "tcp"
    ip-version: "v4"

    ################

>     ip: "2001:4860:4860::8844"      # It is recognized as IPv6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ip: "2001:4860:4860::8844"      # Recognized as IPv6
```

    port: 1616

.. warning::

>     ``ip`` field does not allow DNS names, only well-formed IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``ip`` field does not currently support DNS names, only well-formed IP addresses.
```

Discovery Server GuidPrefix
===========================

A :term:`Discovery Server` requires a DDS :term:`GuidPrefix` in order to other Participants connect to it.
There are several possibilities for configuring a GuidPrefix.

Discovery Server GuidPrefix by string
-------------------------------------

> Using tag ``guid``, the GuidPrefix of the Discovery Server will be set as it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GuidPrefix of the Discovery Server can be configured using ``guid`` tag.
```

Author: :+1:

Be aware of using the correct format for GuidPrefix.
That is, 12 hexadecimal numbers (lower than ``ff``) separated with ``.``.

.. code-block:: yaml

    guid: "1.f.1.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.ca.fe"     # GuidPrefix = 01.0f.01.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.ca.fe

Discovery Server GuidPrefix by Id
---------------------------------

Using tag ``id``, the GuidPrefix will be calculated arbitrarily using a default |ddsrouter| GuidPrefix.

> This default GuidPrefix is ``01.0f.x.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.ca.fe`` where ``x`` is the value of the id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This default GuidPrefix is ``01.0f.<id>.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.ca.fe``.
```

Author: :+1:

Default value for ``id`` is ``0``.

.. code-block:: yaml

    id: 13                          # GuidPrefix = 01.0f.0d.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.ca.fe

.. note::

>     In the actual version only 256 different ids are allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the current version of the |ddsrouter| only ids in the range 0 to 256 are allowed.
```

Author: :+1:

>     In future releases it would be implemented to allow further ids.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In future releases it would be implemented to allow a wider range of ids.
```

ROS Discovery Server GuidPrefix
-------------------------------

> There is a specific GuidPrefix for ROS2 executions, so it could be used using Fast DDS CLI and

Reviewer: In general, ROS 2 is written separated.
```suggestion
There is a specific GuidPrefix for ROS 2 executions, so it could be used using Fast DDS CLI and
```

> ROS2 ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROS 2 ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` environment variable
```

(`<https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/v2.4.1/fastdds/ros2/discovery_server/ros2_discovery_server.html>`__).

> The ROS2 Discovery Server GuidPrefix is set by default to ``44.53.x.5f.45.50.52.4f.53.49.4d.41`` where ``x`` is the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ROS 2 Discovery Server GuidPrefix is set by default to ``44.53.<id>.5f.45.50.52.4f.53.49.4d.41`` where ``<id>`` is the
```

Author: :+1:

specific id of the Server.
This GuidPrefix also allow an ``id``` value to specify which id is used in the GuidPrefix.
Default value for ``id`` is ``0``.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ros-discovery-server: true      # GuidPrefix = 44.53.x.5f.45.50.52.4f.53.49.4d.41
    id: 13                          # GuidPrefix = 44.53.0d.5f.45.50.52.4f.53.49.4d.41

Discovery Server Connection Addresses
=====================================

Tag ``connection-addresses`` configure a connection with one or multiple remote Discovery Servers.

> ``connection-addresses`` is the *key* for an array where each element has a GuidPrefix referencing the Discovery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``connection-addresses`` is the *key* for an array in which each element has a GuidPrefix referencing the Discovery
```

Server to connect with; and a tag ``addresses`` configuring the addresses of such Discovery Server.

.. code-block:: yaml

    connection-addresses:
    [
        {
            guid: "44.53.0d.5f.45.50.52.4f.53.49.4d.41"
            addresses:
            [
                {
                    ip: "127.0.0.1",
                    port: 11666,
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            id: 4
            addresses:
            [
                {
                    ip: "2001:4860:4860::8888",
                    port: 11667,
                    transport: "tcp"
                },
                {
                    ip: "2001:4860:4860::8844",
                    port: 11668,
                    transport: "tcp"
                }
            ]
        }
    ]

General Example
===============

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A complete example of all the configurations described on this page can be found below. 

```

Author: :+1:
